Structured Query Lang.

Database? :It can be defined as the storage of inter related data, that has been organized in such a manner that the process of retrieving data is effective and efficient

DBMS : Database Management System : A set of programs to access the data.
- An environment that is both convenient and efficient to use.

Why DBMS? : Draw Backs of File System
 - Data Redundancy and inconsistency
 - Difficulty in accessing data
 - Data Isolation - multiple files and formats
 - Integrity problems
 - Concurrency problems
 - Security (giving access partially or fully to select few employees)

Few RDBMS Databases in the market : Oracle, MSSql, Postgress, Informix, Sybase, MySql

Architecture of DBMS : 3 level arch.
1. Physical level : Binary format(1/0)
2. Logical level : describes data stored in a database along with the relationships of the data in a table/matrix format (rows/columns)
3. Application/View Level

Data Models : A collection if tools for describing
 - Data
 - Data Relationships
 - Data Semantics
 - Data Constraints

Types of Models:
 1. HDBMS : Hierarchial Database Management System
 2. NDBMS - Network Database Management System
 3. RDBMS : Relational Database Management System
 4. ORDBMS : Object Relational Database Management System (Multimedia, Hypertext based databases)

RDBMS: MSSQL
EF codd
Chen
Boyce

The relational model stores data into tables/relations, each consisiting of rows and cols. Cols are also known as attributes. Rows have data against the cols.

Imp Terms in Relational Model :

 Relation - a table
 Tuple - a row in a table
 Attribute - a column in a table
 Degree - number of attributes
 Cardinality - number of tuples

Entity - is anything that exists and is distinguishable

Entity set - a group of similar entities

Relationship - an association between entities
  Types of Relationships :
    1. One to One
    2. One to many
    3. many to many

SQL : 5 Components (non-case sensitive)

 DDL - Data Definition Lang. (Create, Alter, Drop, Truncate)
 DML - Data Manipulation Lang.(Insert, Update, Delete)
 DQL - Data Query Lang ( Select)
 DCL - Data Control Lang ( Grant, Revoke)
 TCL - Transaction Control Lang.(Rollback, Commit)

Integrity Constraints: 3 in number
 1. Entity Integrity :  pk
 2. Domain Integrity : check
 3. Referential Integrity : fk

Constraints : Restricting the kind of data that goes into a column

 Primary key - An attribute or a combination of attributes (Composite primary key) that ensures unique identification of a tuple/row 
  - it cannot be null ( nulls are neither zeros nor spaces. It is unknown or missing info.)
  - no duplicates
 Foreign key - An attribute that corresponds to the primary key of another table/relation. Can be duplicated and can have null values
 Unique Key - Is like a primary key, except that it can accept only one null value
 Check - Accepting only domain pool of values (IT,CSC,ECE,EEE,Mech,Civil, Instr.)
 Default - Providing default values when not given explicitly


 