Triggers : Are stored sql statements that gets fired automatically on an DML Event of the table

Are of 2 types : DML, DDL

DML: 

Write Ahead Memory ( dml)
insert into tabl1 1 values(, , , , , )
select * from table 1  - find the inserted data
rollback
select * from table 1- no data

Magic tables : A memory tables created during the DML operations that are accessible within the body of the trigger and not outside

inserted table : a new record gets inserted in the inserted table
deleted table : the record that is being deleted is copied onto the deleted table

update action : a delete followed by an insert

Syntax: create trigger <triggername> 
on <tablename>
for <insert/update/delete
as
begin
sql statements
end

--Insertion
1. insert into table values()
   insert into table values()


2. insert into table values(),(),()

3. --Bulk Insert : insert into table1 .. select column list from other table2
insert into .... select
  (copying multiple rows from one table into another - provided all table structures of both the table matches in terms of the selected columns and the datatypes)


DDL Triggers  are gaian of 2 types
  1. Database Scopped Triggers - applied for a database
  2. Server Scopped Triggers - applicable on all databases of the server


SSRS : SQL Server Reporting Services which is a software that allows us to produce formatted reports in the form of data,graph,images and charts. These reports are hosted on a server that can be executed any time. It is a part of Microsofts Services Suits

Why SSRS?
 SSRS is a tool comapared to crystal reports
 Faster processing of repoirts on both relational amd multidimensional data
 Allows better decision making
 It provides a World wide web-based connection for deploying reports. Hence the reports can be accessed over the internet
 SSRS allows reports to be exported in different formats. We can deliver reports using emails.

What is RDL? : Report Definition Language. It describes all the elements of a report using XML grammar, which is validated using xml schema


Steps for SSRS :
1. Download and install SQL Server
2. Download and install Server Management Studio
3. Install Sql Server Reporting Services
    web address - https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=100122
  download and then install
4. Configure SSRS
     
      After installation, go to report server configuaration manager and follow the      below steps
     1. WebService URL - apply
     2. Database - >Change Database -> Give a name(eg. Myreportserver), give authentication type (windows/service credentials) -> click next->next->finish
     3. WebPortal URL -> Apply
Note :Virtual Directory gets created and an URL is mapped to access the reports or create new reports or upload existing reports from a browser

Click the url and see the browser launch of creating or using existing reports

5. Connect to the SSRS and register a Report Server
    1. Go to SQL management studio -> click view-> registered server
    2. Select Reporting Services Icon -> Find Local Server Groups-> right click and select new server registration->select ther servername->click test and wait for sometime->save and come out

Now in the SSMS - you will see 2 panes on the left (you can connect to reporting services or database services from the second pane)

6. Install Report Builder 

    download and install ms report builder (https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=53613 )
   1. Launch the report builder app
   2. Create Datasource
   3. Create Dataset
   4. Select requuired fields, aggregates from query designer options
       You can format the report
   5. Save the Report as an . RDL file
   6. You can upload the .rdl file from the URL (Report Configuration Manager)
7. Create and publish your reports
 

SQL Jobs and Schedules: A task is known as a job, and it can be scheduled to run at a specific time, either once or on a regular basis.

Jobs can be scheduled to run basis GUI or a script
 To schedule a job :
  1. Ensure the SQL Server Agent services are running either by
      a : SSMS->SQL Server Agent-> Right click->start
      b : type services.msc on the Run app and go to Microsoft SQL Server Agent->right click on the status column and start
  2. Prepare a Query
  3. Create a Job, schedule it and run the job

